(Yuya)
Boy, do I miss 'em...
Principal Boyle, Frederick,
Allie, Tate...
and my mom.
Feels like forever ago
when I left to find Zuzu
and help try to put an end
to these dimensional wars.
Hopefully winning
this Duel Tournament
here in the Synchro Dimension
will help...
but who knows?
Anything can happen.
After all,
so much already has here.
They say that to know the future
it's best to look back
on the past.
Maybe now'd be
a good time to do just that.
♪
♪ Hey, hey,
can you feel the power? ♪
♪ You vs. me,
competition for the victory ♪
♪ I could be the best one day
and make history ♪
♪ Swing into action ♪
♪ Are you ready
to play? ♪
♪ Challenge anyone,
anywhere, any day ♪
♪ You wanna take a chance? ♪
♪ Go 'head and roll
the dice ♪
♪ See if
it's in your cards ♪
♪ If you'll pay
the price ♪
♪ Activate the spell ♪
♪ Let your powers
come to life ♪
♪ It's showtime ♪
♪ Who will win the fight? ♪
♪ I'm ready to duel ♪
♪ Go 'head
and make your move ♪
♪ I'll win this duel,
you can't beat my moves ♪
♪ I'm in that groove,
I know I can't lose ♪
♪ Your turn, your tricks,
now what will you choose? ♪
♪ Can you feel the power? ♪
♪ I'll win this duel,
you can't beat my moves ♪
♪ I'm in that groove,
I know I can't lose ♪
♪ Your turn, your tricks,
now what will you choose? ♪
♪ Can you feel the power? ♪
(Yuya)
In order to take our stand
against Duel Academy
in the Fusion Dimension,
my friends and I journeyed here
to the Synchro Dimension.
But I guess we booked
the wrong travel agent,
because when we arrived,
we found out we were separated
from the others.
And things only got worse.
We quickly ran into Synchro's
police force: Sector Security.
They didn't exactly give us
a warm welcome.
♪
(Roget)
In the game of chess,
you must be aggressive to win.
The true is same in life,
so when I, Director Roget,
received word
that some duelists
had been found trespassing,
I sent my forces
to arrest them.
And it's a good thing
I did, too,
because the passenger in pursuit
bore a striking resemblance
to one of our new visitors‐‐
a fact I found very intriguing.
(Yuya)
Soon, Sector Security
had us cornered.
It seemed hopeless.
That is,
until the cavalry arrived!
(thunder booms)
Crow Hogan and his pals
showed up on the scene!
They saved us!
♪
After taking us in,
he gave us the lowdown
on how things worked
in his city‐‐
how there were two ways of life:
living in the slums
or in a place called the Tops.
The people that lived there
lived in the lap of luxury.
They called all the shots
and didn't have any worries.
But the folks who lived below
in the slums weren't so lucky.
And as it turns out,
neither were we...
Crow! Sector Security
is heading this way!
Run for it!
(siren whooping,
tires squealing)
♪
(Roget)
Now where was I?
Ah, yes...
I had my forces capture
these duelists
from another world.
Naturally, I separated the girl
from the others,
for I desired
to question her personally.
Her presence piqued
my curiosity.
I wanted to know
where she came from.
Why she was here.
And why there are two of her.
Capturing one
proved easier than I thought,
so I knew I would have
the other one in due time.
(Yuya)
Soon, I learned
that Sector Security
was after my lost friend Zuzu.
You and your girl
ain't too bright
putting up all those posters
about invasions and stuff.
Sector Security
don't take too kindly
to that kind of mischief.
Zuzu!
(Yuya)
And so, to rescue Zuzu,
we joined Crow's friends
and mounted a daring escape!
Or so we thought.
♪
(gasping)
Hang on, Zuzu!
I'm on my way!
(Roget)
I arrived
at the detention facility
right in the middle of their
pathetic escape attempt.
We quickly reprocessed them
and I thought
that would be the end of it.
But I was wrong.
Something more was going on,
because the High Council,
the elders who govern the city,
overruled my orders.
(Gray)
Declan and his Lancers
came from their dimension,
known as the Standard Dimension,
to ours.
(Azul)
He made it clear that his
Lancers were on a mission
to keep Fusion Dimension's Duel
Academy from attacking here.
Before, Fusion's forces
were unchecked.
But now they would be challenged
by the Lancers.
(White)
Declan wanted to make
an alliance with us
to form a more powerful force
to fight back
against the Fusion Dimension.
But this threat that he spoke of
was one that we were
already quite aware of.
(Gale)
Ten years earlier,
after Chojiro Tokumatsu
was locked away,
our city streets
fell into chaos.
The tension between Topsiders
and Commons swelled.
(Gray)
And something needed to be done.
The Council enacted two new
policies to maintain the peace.
(Azul)
The first was to create
the Friendship Cup‐‐
a duel tournament
where Topsiders and Commons
could come together and share
their love of dueling.
(Boldo)
But that's all the sharing
that would take place.
For you see, the second policy
was to bolster security.
To keep Commons in their place.
(White)
And we were able
to accomplish this
by outfitting the security
forces with a new ARC system
that could create something
real, something you could feel‐‐
from nothing at all.
And who gave us this technology?
Why, none other
than Jean Michel Roget.
And due to its success,
he quickly rose
through the ranks
and became
our Director of Security.
(Gale)
We knew Roget was not
one of us‐‐
that he was
from the Fusion Dimension.
(Gray)
And we also knew
that there were those
from Fusion who wanted war,
but all the more reason...
(Azul)
To keep him close.
And besides,
none of us could dispute
that he was keeping our city
in order.
(Boldo)
So when Declan Akaba appeared
and presented us with a new way
to stop Fusion,
we weighed our options.
(Gale)
Should we keep the peace
with Roget or side with Declan?
(Gray)
A spirited debate followed
on the matter...
(Azul)
If we must
make a choice,
we should choose
to be allies
with the side least
likely to lose.
(Boldo)
Agreed, but in war
there are
too many variables.
There's no telling
who might triumph.
There must be
another option.
(White)
And there was: we simply decided
to not pick sides.
We would allow Declan
and his Lancers to defend us,
and if he happened to be
victorious,
we too would be victorious.
However, if he and his team
failed in their endeavor,
we'd still maintain
our good relations with Fusion.
That was the plan.
But still, we knew
that no plan was perfect,
especially when dealing
with a man as cunning as Roget.
♪
(Roget)
Yuya was trouble.
This I understood.
And that's why I chose him
to duel Jack Atlas
on the eve of the tournament.
I wanted to learn more
about the mysterious new
summoning method he employed‐‐
something called
Pendulum summoning‐‐
and at the same time,
see if it could help
in taking Jack down,
way down,
once and for all.
(Yuya)
My opponent
for the opening ceremony
was the one and only Jack Atlas,
the legend of legends,
the Master of Faster.
I was excited to duel him
but insulted when he said
he could beat me in three turns!
He got in my head.
Maybe that's what he was
trying to do.
Because the truth is,
it did throw me off my game...
and right when it mattered
most, too.
Right when I was
looking to take out
the last bits
of Jack's life points.
♪
Now to drop 'em to zero!
Go Rune‐Eyes Pendulum Dragon!
Attack Jack Atlas directly!
Listen up, Yuya.
You call yourself
a Dueltainer.
Well, here's my review.
Your performance
was abysmal.
Mediocre at best.
And I'm gonna
bring the curtain down on you!
Grr...
I Synchro Summon!
Now rise,
Scarlight Red Dragon Archfiend!
♪
And now,
Scarlight Red Dragon Archfiend,
attack Yuya directly,
then end this!
Molten Crimson Flare!
♪
(Yuya)
I lost.
But more than just the match.
I lost my confidence, too.
And then I nearly lost my lunch
when Chojiro dropped by
to tell me something
totally surprising
and even more disturbing.
He let me know that those
who lose in the Friendship Cup
are sent deep underground
to work in a giant trash heap
as punishment.
So now there was even more
at stake in this tournament‐‐
for old friends...
and for new.
Aah...!
(Yuya)
But these weren't stakes I was
willing to put up with.
Seeing friends get sent
to the underground was horrible.
I knew what I had to do!
My plan was to tell the crowd
about the underground
so they would learn the truth!
I thought maybe
it would unite them‐‐
maybe create a unified front
against this punishment.
I told them
about the atrocities,
but they didn't care!
All they wanted to see
was destruction!
The more destruction,
the happier they were!
(crowd chanting)
Yuya! Yuya! Yuya!
Well done!
227's a chump!
He's gone for good!
You showed him!
(thinking)
Oh, no.
They don't get it.
They still don't see
that dueling
is supposed to be for fun.
(Yuya)
I was in the dumpiest of dumps
when my fellow Lancer Moonshadow
told me that all my friends
who were sent underground
were doing just fine.
What a relief that was!
But I was still so bummed that
the people wouldn't listen to me
when I told them
that they should duel for fun‐‐
and that's when Moonshadow
dropped another bombshell
when he gave me a message
from Riley.
(Riley)
The only way people
are going to listen to Yuya
is if he wins
the Friendship Cup
to get the chance
to duel against Jack!
And if he beats Jack, then he'll
be everyone's new hero...
and they'll listen
to what he has to say.
(gasps)
(Yuya)
Who woulda thought
that a little kid
would be the one
teaching me the lessons.
And I couldn't wait to let Zuzu
know that I'm back
and ready to take center stage.
"Dear Zuzu,
"It stinks that I can't
see you in person,
"but I know
you're doing just fine.
"Nice duel, by the way.
"You looked like a natural
on that Runner.
"Maybe we can bring one
back with us when we get home!
"But first I have to get through
to the people of this city.
"I hoped I could remind everyone
"that dueling's
about having fun and smiling
"but it's hard to do
when I'm having a hard time
smiling and having fun myself."
I promise to take
center stage, Zuzu,
by winning
the Friendship Cup,
swinging the crowd my way,
and bringing smiles back
to the hearts of everyone!
(Yuya)
But the war between Shay and
Dennis put all that on hold.
Shay thought something was dodgy
with Dennis and he was right.
Turns out Dennis
was from the Fusion Dimension.
But that wasn't the worst of it.
When Dennis told Shay
he captured his sister,
Shay lost it‐‐ and took out
Dennis and half the stadium.
(Gale)
Where are you going?
To speak with Dennis.
I have... questions.
Or maybe... you don't want me
to find the answers?
The situation
is extremely delicate.
You must understand
that our city
is on the brink
of chaos.
Unfortunately,
we cannot allow you
to take any action
that might lead
to further disorder.
It is a matter
of public safety.
Isn't that right,
Presider?
Indeed.
We simply cannot afford
any disturbance,
especially one
that might draw us
into an
interdimensional war.
You fools.
The war isn't coming‐‐
it's already here.
As for avoiding trouble‐‐
that's just inviting trouble
to find you.
Mm... so noted, Declan,
But on this issue
we disagree.
So far trouble
has not found us.
And we plan
to keep it that way
by keeping the peace‐‐
and keeping Dennis
away from Roget.
We're not comfortable
with two people from the
Fusion Dimension interacting..
(groaning)
(man)
Stop right there.
Huh?
We'll take it from here.
Dennis is coming with us.
We have direct orders
from the High Council.
So hand him over right now.
(man)
That's not happening!
(all gasp)
MacField is coming
with us!
We have orders from
Director Roget himself!
(attendants whimpering)
The High Council
has suspended Roget
effective immediately.
Therefore
your so‐called orders
carry no weight
whatsoever.
We're not letting him
out of our sight!
(all gasping and groaning)
MacField‐‐ he's gone!
Impossible!
Dennis MacField
cannot be allowed to escape!
I want him found immediately!
As for the Council
overruling me...
In the very near future,
when they're begging
for mercy...
I only hope that they remember
they started this.
♪
Attention, all Security.
You may have heard rumors
of my ousting.
Well, pay them no mind.
And above all,
remember...
You serve only me.
(laughs)
Hey...
(beeping)
♪
(whimpers)
Aah!
♪
(gasps)
(Roget)
Operation: King's Gambit
is now in effect.
♪
What's going on?!
This is an outrage!
Yes, who is behind this?
(Roget)
Who do you think?
Now, now, don't be cross.
After all,
you gave me no choice.
(Boldo)
Roget!
Overruling my orders
as Director of Security
after all the good work
I've done?
Why would this council
do such a thing?
Why would you want to
hurt my feelings like that?
Because of Dennis MacField.
He has ties to Duel Academy,
as do you,
and we do not want him
influencing your judgment.
(chuckles)
Oh, Presider,
you worry too much.
Yes, bringing Duel Academy
here may have been a plan
once
but now
I have no such interest.
If I brought them here,
they would destroy the city...
after everything I've done
to consolidate my power.
This city belongs to me‐‐
not the High Council,
not Duel Academy.
This city is thriving
thanks to me.
(Boldo)
Thanks to you?
(Azul)
Meaning what?
Meaning I've made
this city an empire.
And now I plan
to be its emperor.
Emperor?
You're mad!
(Roget)
The mad are the only ones
who ever get things done.
Really, you should be
thanking me.
This is a far better scenario
than being invaded.
What's that old saying?
It's better
to trust the enemy you know
than the one you don't?
Besides, when you really
think about it,
what will be
any different?
I've already been running
everything in this city
since you appointed me.
What's going to change?
So when we allowed you
to bolster security
and implement
your ARC technology,
it wasn't for some
dimensional war but this?
But of course.
You must position your pawns
just right
if you plan
to win the big game.
Or in other words‐‐
take out the king.
But let's not get
too far ahead ourselves.
I've already had to
accelerate my plans
due this Dennis
unpleasantness.
Moving forward,
let's keep things
as normal as possible,
which means...
the Friendship Cup
continues.
And you continue pretending
to be in charge.
(Declan)
You're really something.
All of this time,
I thought you were setting
the stage for your boss...
but really
you were just preparing
for something even more
important to you.
Yes, myself.
And why not?
Taking orders
from Professor Leo Akaba
has grown tiresome.
It's far more enjoyable
to be the one giving them.
I'm sure you can
sympathize, Declan.
After all,
Leo is your father.
That's right, I knew it
from the moment
you first appeared.
I also happen to know
that you're not
his biggest fan.
Well, then...
How would you like
to join forces with me?
We'd answer to no one!
Oh, you mean
rule this city together?
I'll pass.
(gasps)
True, I have issues
with my father
but that doesn't make you
any less insufferable.
Partnering with you
would be tedious.
How discourteous.
But very well‐‐
just don't forget
I gave you a chance.
Ta‐ta for now.
♪
(shouts angrily)
(thinking)
I'll show
that short‐sighted Declan.
I'll show them all!
I will rule this city.
But the key to it all
is Dennis MacField.
I must find him.
Because if he finds a way back
to the Fusion Dimension,
he'll report to Leo Akaba
that both Celina and Zuzu
are here in this city.
He'll send a whole army
to capture them...
or even worse, he might send
his personal enforcer...
Yuri.
Yuri's loyalty to Akaba
is unwavering.
He would destroy
everything I have planned.
I can't let that happen.
I must locate Dennis
and locate him now...
before it's too late!
♪
(Dennis, groggy)
Huh?
Where am I?
Oh, good.
The snoozer's up.
Who's there?
It's me‐‐ Sora.
Come on, you know‐‐
your colleague
from Duel Academy?
Oh, yeah‐‐
I remember you.
Are you the one
that saved my tail?
That's right‐‐ I've
been keeping tabs on you.
You did a pretty good job
keeping your identity
under wraps.
I'm a natural.
The Professor knew my
talents would come in handy
with this mission.
Speaking of, I still need
to get Zuzu and Celina to‐‐
(groans)
Still need to get them
to the Professor?
That's my job now‐‐
you're heading home.
Home?!
On whose order?
The Professor himself
gave the order, Dennis‐‐
so this comes
straight from the top.
Your time here
is now through.
Oh...
Your mission
was to capture Celina,
but you couldn't
catch a cold.
And the Professor
doesn't like failure.
But you can explain
all of that in person
because I'm sending you
home to the Fusion Dimension.
Later, Red.
♪
(Leo)
I've reviewed
Dennis MacField's debriefing.
He asserts
that Celina and Zuzu
are currently
in the Synchro Dimension.
Take Obelisk Force
to the Synchro Dimension
and capture the two girls.
Sir.
It would be an honor
and a privilege.
It shall be done.
I will also send Yuri
to aid you.
Do not fail me.
Sir, we don't need his help.
I promise to capture them...
before Yuri even shows up.
Very well then.
See to it.
(Yuya)
Well, enough looking back.
It's time to look forward‐‐
to the Friendship Cup's
third day.
Who knows what the cards hold
for the duels ahead?
I know this, though...
No matter what happens
or who I face...
I'm gonna battle my way.
Not with hate,
fear or anger fueling me...
but with the thing that first
made me wanna be a duelist...
the desire
to put on a great show.
(echoing)
And I'll do it
with a smile...
It's a brand‐new day.
And that means
new possibilities.
To duel our best...
and win over this city!
So to my Dad and Yoko...
Frederick... Allie...
Little Tate...
hang on!
I know it's taking some time...
but we'll be home
before you know it!
♪
(Roget)
Zuzu Boyle
will be your opponent.
She is an essential part
in my plan
to consolidate power
and secure my rule
over this city.
So you are to defeat her
and then bring her to me.
By any means necessary.
♪